<h1>Software Carpentry Steering Committee Meeting Minutes</h1>
<p><strong>Date:</strong> 2016-05-09</p>
<h2>Attendance</h2>
<h3>Steering Committee Members</h3>
<ul>

<li>Karin Lagesen</li>

<li>Jason Williams</li>

<li>Raniere Silva</li>

<li>Bill Mills</li>

<li>Rayna Harris</li>

<li>Belinda Weaver</li>

<li>Kate Hertweck</li>

</ul>
<h3>Staff</h3>
<ul>

<li>Jonah Duckles</li>

<li>Greg Wilson</li>

<li>Maneesha Sane</li>

</ul>
<h3>Others</h3>
<ul>

<li>Tracy Teal</li>

</ul>
<h3>Not attending</h3>
<ul>

</ul>

<h2>Updates</h2>

<h3>Update #2016-05-09/1</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: Discussed with NumFOCUS ways to be more efficient.</p>

<h3>Update #2016-05-09/2</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: Conversations with possible partners.</p>
<p>Details: Most of possible partners are interested on having instructor training.</p>

<h3>Update #2016-05-09/3</h3>
<p>Presenter: Bill Mills.</p>
<p>Text: Budget for financial year 2016.</p>
<p>Details: Software Carpentry can honor all their expenses in 2016.</p>

<h3>Update #2016-05-09/3</h3>
<p>Presenter: Greg Wilson.</p>
<p>Text: Instructor training</p>
<p>Details: - Completion rates are 60-70% at 90 days.
- Building training capacity:
  - Currently 6 certified instructor trainers
  - Currently 7 people in the pipeline for instructor trainer certification in September
- Curriculum is in usable but not transferable/publishable state</p>

<h3>Update #2016-05-09/4</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: Communication with Advisory Council</p>
<p>Details: We should allow more time for the Advisory Council to make comments.</p>

<h3>Update #2016-05-09/5</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jason Williams.</p>
<p>Text: Review Strategic Plan</p>
<p>Details: We need to review and update that document for this year.</p>

<h3>Update #2016-05-09/6</h3>
<p>Presenter: Maneesha Sane.</p>
<p>Text: Administrative Update</p>
<p>Details: Everyone is thankful for Maneesha’s work.</p>

<h3>Update #2016-05-09/7</h3>
<p>Presenter: Rayna Harris.</p>
<p>Text: Planning for Subcommittees and Task Forces</p>
<p>Details: Waiting to have the applications.</p>

<h3>Update #2016-05-09/8</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jason Williams.</p>
<p>Text: Bylaw Review</p>



<h2>Motions</h2>

<h3>Motion #2016-05-09/1</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: Approve partnership with UCSD (Silver).</p>
<p>Resolution: Passed.</p>

<h3>Motion #2016-05-09/2</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: Approve partnership with Jackson Laboratory.</p>
<p>Resolution: Passed.</p>

<h3>Motion #2016-05-09/3</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: Renewal partnership with Cyverse (Gold).</p>
<p>Resolution: Passed.</p>

<h3>Motion #2016-05-09/4</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: Update the Code of Conduct to match Data Carpentry’s Code of Conduct.</p>
<p>Resolution: Passed.</p>
<p>Details: Software Carpentry’s Code of Conduct is a little different of Data Carpentry’s one. Use the same code of conduct will help members of the community to know our Code of Conduct.</p>

<h3>Motion #2016-05-09/5</h3>
<p>Presenter: Karin Langesen.</p>
<p>Text: Authorize ED to go ahead and sign any academic partnerships that do not require any word change, except partner names, to our legal documents. In case of word changes, the ED is required to notify the SC.</p>
<p>Resolution: Rejected.</p>
<p>Details: Counter motion was proposed.</p>

<h3>Motion #2016-05-09/6</h3>
<p>Presenter: Greg Wilson.</p>
<p>Text: In the case of Bronze, Silver and Gold Partnerships, the ED has the freedom to accept changes that do not alter the intent or obligations of the partnership document.</p>
<p>Resolution: Passed.</p>
<p>Details: We are moving to monthly meetings, and our current rules requires all new partnerships to be approved by the SC. This rule will delay signing partnerships a lot. Currently at least 60% of all partnerships are signed without any change to our legal documents. This change would enable those to go through without any delay, and should free up some of the ED’s time. </p>

<h3>Motion #2016-05-09/7</h3>
<p>Presenter: Greg Wilson.</p>
<p>Text: Change by laws to ensure the continuity of the Steering Committee across its elections.</p>
<p>Resolution: Postponed to next meeting due request of rewrite.</p>
<p>Details: Need better description and comments from Advisor Council and community.</p>

<h3>Motion #2016-05-09/8</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jason Williams.</p>
<p>Text: The SC cancels the current email voting rules, and will adopt the emergency email and voting rules developed at the in-person retreat.</p>
<p>Resolution: Passed.</p>
<p>Details: If an emergency discussion is required (as determined by a member of the SC, or ED or admin)
1. If an emergency discussion is required, the SC chair will notify each member with 24 hrs.
2. If a vote is required, and a motion is seconded, each member has 48 hrs (covering working days in their time zone) to respond to any vote. 
3. Any member of the board can call a live online discussion if they deem it necessary. This meeting will convene as soon as at least a quorum of the SC can meet.</p>

<h3>Motion #2016-05-09/9</h3>
<p>Presenter: Greg Wilson.</p>
<p>Text: Pass the Roadmap for SWC/DC Lesson development.</p>
<p>Resolution: Postponed to next meeting due request of rewrite.</p>

<h3>Motion #2016-05-09/10</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jason Wiliams.</p>
<p>Text: Software Carpentry Foundation will budget for and maintain a full-time director of instructor training.</p>
<p>Resolution: Passed.</p>

<h3>Motion #2016-05-09/11</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jason Wiliams.</p>
<p>Text: Software Carpentry Foundation’s staffs will maintain their job descriptions.</p>
<p>Resolution: Passed.</p>

<h3>Motion #2016-05-09/12</h3>
<p>Presenter: Greg Wilson.</p>
<p>Text: Authorize instructor training in July or August 2016 for up to two dozen people as final check-out exercise to instructors trainees in-training be certified.</p>
<p>Resolution: Postponed to next meeting due request of rewrite.</p>

<h3>Motion #2016-05-09/13</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jason Wiliams.</p>
<p>Text: Software Carpentry Foundation will maintain an ombudsman.</p>
<p>Resolution: Passed.</p>

<h3>Motion #2016-05-09/14</h3>
<p>Presenter: Greg Wilson.</p>
<p>Text: Software Carpentry Foundation will run two open online instructor training classes in 2016.</p>
<p>Resolution: Passed.</p>



<h2>Discussions</h2>

<h3>Discussion #2016-05-09/1</h3>
<p>Presenter: Greg Wilson.</p>
<p>Text: Instructor Training</p>
<p>Resolution: Not Applicable.</p>
<p>Details: - Our stats is that most of the instructors teach only one or two workshop (per year) and only a couple taught 3 or more times.
- We have some instructor trainees certificate and some in progress.
- The curriculum for Instructor Training is more well write but not stable. It need one or two full weeks of work to review.
- Instructor probably are expecting to us request them to teach and last year we agree that we expected that they self-organized the workshops. We should add this note to instructor training.
- Instructors are lost on what they need to do to complete instructor training.
- Some instructors complained that there is no opportunity to talk.</p>

<h3>Discussion #2016-05-09/2</h3>
<p>Presenter: Rayna Harris.</p>
<p>Text: Planning for Subcommittees and Task Forces</p>
<p>Resolution: Not Applicable.</p>
<p>Details: - We should better advertise the proposal for Subcommittees and Task Forces.
- We should low our expectations for people volunteers hours. We can't ask for more people hours since we are already asking for a lot of hours.
- We had a culture of only Greg asking… we are moving to more people asking each other.
- Maybe we are not communicating effectivity with the community on what we need to help for. People must know that new ideas are welcome and is important that we give people concrete tasks to do.
- We should budget our volunteers hours.</p>

<h3>Discussion #2016-05-09/3</h3>
<p>Presenter: Belinda Weaver.</p>
<p>Text: Building a Communication Strategy</p>
<p>Resolution: Not Applicable.</p>
<p>Details: Areas we need to work:</p>
<ul>
<li>Expansion - done by Steering Commitment</li>
<li>Communications</li>
<li>Assessment</li>
<li>of lessons</li>
<li>of learners</li>
<li>of instructors</li>
<li>of training</li>
<li>of communication</li>
<li>of participation</li>
<li>Lesson Development</li>
<li>What lessons to develop</li>
<li>Quality control on content (equiv. of editorial)</li>
<li>Making sure host organizations know how to choose the right lesson for their needs</li>
<li>Instructor Development</li>
<li>Includes current mentoring and instructor training</li>
<li>Community Development</li>
<li>Code of conduct</li>
<li>One-off events</li>
<li>Cultivate the social network</li>
</ul>

<h3>Discussion #2016-05-09/4</h3>
<p>Presenter: Greg Wilson.</p>
<p>Text: Instructor Training Strategy</p>
<p>Resolution: Not Applicable.</p>
<p>Details: We need to work with (1) partners, (2) instructors, (3) learners, and (4) founders.
The website is difficult to find stuffs. We should sit down with someone to and rewrite the website navigation flow. Access to Google Analytics will be important. Maybe paying for some services to get knowledge of what happen when someone first go to our website.
We can have local pages on the website. We can have chapters and we just communicate with lead chapters will make things much easier.
Create new blog posts (from non-technical people) for the website should be easy. This will help with guest blog post.
We can also have newsletter that will with the annual report. Each newsletter could focus on one country.
Maybe we should start one new blog from scratch with one new and concise tag semantic.
Maybe "SWC friends" that aren’t instructors or helpers but they advertize our work.
Media press material that are on the communication repository but is a mess at the moment. We can have an Instagram account to keep photos of workshops.
We can have "Carpentry day" for people show their love for their mission. It could happen on the international day. We can send swag for people to wear/use on this day.
Talk with some people during "end year" over "skype" to thanks for their contribution.</p>

<h3>Discussion #2016-05-09/5</h3>
<p>Presenter: Raniere Silva.</p>
<p>Text: Diversity and Reaching New Demographics</p>
<p>Resolution: Not Applicable.</p>
<p>Details: This is a complex challenge for several reasons
- we usually have someone who discovers us, but then we need to reach out to that person and do relationship building to eventually get things working (a real workshop). 
- We have a limited budget to support these. Can we help people (better) secure their own funding to help support there? Maybe the group running ResBaz in Ecuador could help. Maybe we can use a “kickstarter approach” to help people fund?
- Translation is a potential issue. 
- We tried do instruction in places where we already are to train visiting scientists who can go back home and also bring SWC with them but we never followed through. Maybe have a long term plan (2-3 year) where we target visiting scientists in your local community (instructors, admins, etc.) to be able to go back.
- This is a lot of knowledge on how to do this, but we need to spread this knowledge internally. </p>

<h3>Discussion #2016-05-09/5</h3>
<p>Presenter: Tracy Teal.</p>
<p>Text: Software and Data Carpentry</p>
<p>Resolution: Not Applicable.</p>
<p>Details: Software Carpentry and Data Carpentry will continue to work together.</p>



<h2>Actions</h2>
<ol>

<li><p>Jonah Duckles: find ways to send invoice to other countries that not US.</p></li>

<li><p>Bill Mills: find ways to send invoice to other countries that not US.</p></li>

<li><p>Belinda Weaver: find ways to send invoice to other countries that not US.</p></li>

<li><p>Jason Williams: work to write the strategic plan for 2016.</p></li>

<li><p>Karin Lagesen: work to write the strategic plan for 2016.</p></li>

<li><p>Belinda Weaver: work to write the strategic plan for 2016.</p></li>

<li><p>Jonah Duckles: write the operational plan based on the strategic plan for 2016.</p></li>

<li><p>Karin Lagesen: Add note on Instructor Training Curriculum about instructors seeking for opportunities to teach.</p></li>

<li><p>Greg Wilson: Check that the procedure for Instructor Training is well write.</p></li>

<li><p>Belinda Weaver: Create Instagram account to host photos from workshops.</p></li>

<li><p>Kate Hertweck: Revamp Facebook page.</p></li>

<li><p>Rayna Harris: Revamp Facebook page.</p></li>

<li><p>Raniere Silva: Revamp Facebook page.</p></li>

<li><p>Jonah Duckles: Add UCSD on website.</p></li>

<li><p>Jonah Duckles: Add Jackson Laboratory on website.</p></li>

<li><p>Jonah Duckles: Add Cyverse on website.</p></li>

<li><p>Jonah Duckles: Merge https://github.com/swcarpentry/website/pull/374.</p></li>

<li><p>Greg Wilson: Present proposal regarding the changes on by laws of Steering Committee election by the end of May, 2016 </p></li>

<li><p>Jason Williams: Get preferable contact from Steering Committee Members for emergencies.</p></li>

<li><p>Greg Wilson: Present proposal about lesson development to Advisory Council.</p></li>

<li><p>Jonah Duckles: Add job description to board Git repository.</p></li>

<li><p>Greg Wilson: Add job description to board Git repository.</p></li>

<li><p>Maneesha Sane: Add job description to board Git repository.</p></li>

<li><p>Greg Wilson: Proposal better plan for instructor training during August 2016.</p></li>

<li><p>Jonah Duckles: Find Software Carpentry Foundation’s ombudsman.</p></li>

<li><p>Greg Wilson: Implement the proposal.</p></li>

</ol>
